Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A programming language is a type of written language that tells computers what to do.



What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.Java Runtime Environment (JRE), An interpreter/loader (Java), A compiler (javac), An archiver (jar) and many more
The Java Runtime Environment, or JRE, is a software layer that runs on top of a computer’s operating system software and provides the class libraries and other resources that a specific Java program needs to run.
Interpreter in Java is a computer program that converts high-level program statement into Assembly Level Language.
The language processor that reads the complete source program written in high-level language as a whole in one go and translates it into an equivalent program in machine language is called a Compiler
Java archive (JAR) is a file format that contains bundled Java class files along with associated image/sound files, resources and metadata.

What is IDE?
A.An integrated development environment (IDE) is software for building applications that combines common developer tools into a single graphical user interface (GUI).



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
 Eclipse,IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans, BlueJ,(Oracle) JDeveloper, DrJava,jGRASP, MyEclipse,Xcode,Codenvy


Explain the entire java life cycle.
There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:

Editing the program
Compiling the source code
Executing the byte code
First, you will start with typing the program in a text-editor (ex: notepad, notepad++, wordpad, textedit etc). After completing editing of the program, we have to save the file. While saving the file you should remember that the file must be saved with .java extension. For example, let’s think that I had written a Java program which contains a single class Sample (more on classes in future posts). It is a good convention to save the file with the name of the class. So, as per my example, the file will be saved as Sample.java.

Second step is compilation. The name of the Java compiler is javac. The input to the compiler is Java source code which is available in Sample.java. The output of the compiler is machine independent or platform independent code which is known as bytecode. The file which is generated after compilation is .class file. As per my example, the bytecode file will be Sample.class.

Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code (0’s and 1’s) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.
what is class?
What is object?
What is the entry point of an application?
Why main is static?
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









